# kickstarter-analysis
Performing analysis on Kickstarter data to uncover trends
### challenge
In this analysis, we created two graphs to determine relative success rates of Kickstarter campaigns for plays based on campaign goal and campaign launch date. The first one is a line graph comparing the percent of successful, failed, or canceled "plays" campaigns within twelve different, increasing dollar ranges for campaign goal, ranging from less than $1000 and to more than $50000. The second graph tracks the relationship of campaign outcome of all "theater" Kickstarters to campaign launch date. 

Based on the results of this analysis, we suggest that a Kickstarter campaign in the "plays" and "theater" category would have the greatest chance of success if launched in May with a fundraising goal of less than $5000, and ideally less than $1000. If those parameters are not possible, then it would be advisable to try to launch as soon after May as possible because "theater" campaigns launched in June have the second highest success rate, next to campaigns launched in May. In terms of funding, there appears to be an increasing rate of campaign failure associated with higher campaign goals for campaigns in the "plays" category (with the notable exception of a few price brackets), so attempting to keep the campaign goal as low as possible is also advisable. 

A few limitations of this dataset are thus: 
The sample size for Kickstarters in the "plays" category is limited as the fundraising goal of the campaign increases, rendering the percent success vs failure for campaigns with a high fundraising goal less meaningful, as a 100% failure rate could only mean that one play failed, which may not be representative of any overall trends. 

The dataset does not include data from the past three yeas. Given the relevance of updated information, the absence of any recent campaign data may produce unreliable recommendations from our analysis. 

There is no information in the dataset on the relative timing with which targets were met, limiting the ability of any analyses to accurately predict live campaign success or failure, as opposed to guiding future Kickstarter campaigns on best practices. For example, if a live campaign has a campaign goal of $1000 and a year long campaign runtime, and has only met 50% of its target after six months, we would have no way of knowing if that campaign is likely to meet the other 50% of funding in the next six months, or if it is more likely that it will not acquire the additional funds in the remaining time and fail. 

While these limitations are salient, further useful analyses from this dataset are possible. Other useful analyses could include a chart comparing the length of campaign to the relative rate of success, as well as a graph of the percentages of successful vs failed or canceled campaigns based on launch date instead of the present line graph comparing absolute numbers of successful vs failed or canceled campaigns based on month of launch date. As the target for this analysis was for a "plays" Kickstarter campaign, it would also be useful to filter this graph by the "plays" subcategory, instead of simply by the "theater" parent category. An analysis comparing the number of backers to campaign outcome and the average contribution per backer to campaign outcome might also reveal whether or not it's a wide campaign reach with lots of backers, or a highly targeted campaign with few, but deeply engaged, backers is more successful. 
